[AUDIO LOGO]
>> For millennia, people
have dreamed of immortality.
From ancient shamans to the
great pharaohs of Egypt,
to more recent alchemists
and biohackers,
people have been trying to
cheat death for a while.
But so far, no
one has succeeded.
Despite these
shortcomings, it seems
we are living in quite
interesting times, where
we could be near some
extraordinary scientific
advances that could catapult
human lifespan to unheard
of new levels.
Join us in this journey to
explore the latest breakthroughs
in the science of longevity and
discover what we can do today
to increase our chances of
living long enough to take
advantage of the exciting
longevity technologies
of the near future.
I don't know about
you, but most of us
don't like the idea
of getting old.
Just when things start
becoming interesting in life
and we gain wisdom,
maturity, and stability,
our bodies and minds begin
to decline and slow down.
Some people even dare
to call aging a disease.
>> People ask, is aging the
biggest risk factor of disease?
In my opinion, it doesn't
matter, in my opinion.
What matters is what science is
proving, pointed out that you
have a five times greater chance
of dying of cancer if you smoke,
you have a 500 times
greater chance as you age.
Aging is the breakdown.
If we eliminated cancer, our
life expectancy as a country
or as an individual would go
up about 3 and 1/2 to 5 years
on which statistic you believe.
But aging plays a much
larger role in that process.
Unfortunately, people
at younger ages
are aging faster today
because they don't
take care of their bodies.
So there's zero question
that aging has a giant impact
on the breakdown of disease.
>> 90% of the people in
developed countries die
because of aging, not
because of terrorism,
not because of climate change.
The enemy of humanity
today is aging.
>> Aging is basically
a loss of function.
So your kidneys, when you're
young, they perform fully
and they're able to clear all
the toxins out of your body.
But after decades
of functioning,
they start to lose function.
The same with the brain,
the same with the liver,
the same with the immune system.
Older people are more
susceptible to diseases
and so on.
And that's because there's
an accumulation of cells
within a tissue that are no
longer functioning as originally
intended.
>> People over the age of
65 usually have two or more
diagnoses of an aging disease,
because they go hand in hand.
They are merely the symptom
of biological aging.
If you look at the
definition of a pathology,
aging fits a
pathology perfectly.
>> If people say aging
is not a disease, well,
it was not a disease.
Why are there some animals that
don't have any detectable aging
process, like lobsters
and tortoises and clams,
they have no detectable
aging at all.
>> It's about a three-fold
increased risk if you have high
cholesterol for getting
cardiovascular disease.
How many people do you
know in your 20s that have
cardiovascular disease?
Almost none.
And then it's extremely common,
by the time you get to your 70s,
it's like 100-fold risk.
It's obvious.
We've known this
for a long time.
If you slow aging, you delay
all of these chronic diseases.
So it's clearly a risk factor.
The biggest risk factor and
the most common risk factor.
And that means we should be
spending the most effort trying
to do something about it.
>> I'm definitely not
in favor of aging.
I think that aging is
the world's number one
problem because it causes
so much deprivation, so
much suffering.
Yes, it kills
people, but it tends
to kill people after a
long period of decline
and decrepitude and
dependence and general misery.
That's a problem.
>> Humans, we want to stay
active, young, creative.
And for that, we need
longevity extension.
We need a healthy condition,
both of the body and the mind.
So I think it is an asset.
And there is nothing wrong
with wanting to be young.
>> It will be very important
step when regulators like FDA
will recognize
aging as a disease.
So this will allow
public funding or health
insurance to finance these
longevity interventions.
>> What's exciting is when you
look at aging as a disease,
does anyone know
you can cure it?
And if you can cure it, this
disease, then you basically
can live forever.
>> Once we've gotten rid of the
degenerative process of aging,
then most diseases
will be eliminated.
>> So when people think about
aging in their own lifespan,
they frequently turn to their
parents and their grandparents
to determine how long
they are going to live.
But it turns out, at
least science has recently
told us, that only
7% of your lifespan
can be based upon your genetics.
So conversely, 93% of your
health span is on you.
So it's going to be what
you do with your life.
It's going to be what
you eat, if you exercise,
what things you
surround yourself by.
>> We did a bad deal
with the devil one day.
We came to the
devil and said, why
is life expectancy for thousands
of years, 25 to 35 years?
That's the life expectancy.
And the devil said, oh, oh, OK.
You know what?
I'll help you.
So he did.
He gave us the sewer
and the clean water,
and antibiotics, and
vaccinations, and surgery.
And what happened?
We went through this phase, and
now we have those diseases--
Alzheimer's, and heart disease,
and cancer, and diabetes.
And we need to make
another deal now.
And the deal has to be
that we target aging.
By targeting aging, we're
going to prevent those diseases
and make our health
span better again.
>> A common, inexpensive
diabetes drug has been making
headlines in the last few years
as a potential longevity drug.
But what is it?
And what's all the fuss about?
>> So metformin was a drug or
some of its cousins were drugs
that were used 80 years ago.
And they were actually used
to prevent flu, and malaria,
and inflammation.
And it's during this
time that people
noted that those with diabetes,
it lowered their glucose level.
And so it became
a diabetic drug.
And we have preliminary data
to show you from other studies
that people on metformin
have less diabetes,
they have less heart disease,
they have less cancer.
They live longer even than
people without diabetes,
less Alzheimer's.
And because of its safety
record and because it's generic,
it's the cheapest drug on
the market, we thought,
that's a great entry.
Health care providers
are not going
to object that
their subjects will
be on metformin, such
a cheap drug that will
have so much health benefits.
And when we prove the concept,
the pharmaceuticals will jump in
and the world will rapidly
become a better place.
>> I'm much more
conservative here,
so I would love to see
the outcome of TAME trial.
There's a 5,000 people trial
where metformin is going to be
used to measure its
reversal effect.
So I do believe that
in five years from now
metformin can be
the first or one
of the first longevity drugs.
>> So metformin is
going to be a start.
It will give us two or three
years, which is enough time
to then maybe add another
drug or another drug
or being more dramatic
in how we attack aging.
Two or three years
is a concept that I
want to put in perspective.
If we cured heart disease
in the United States now,
we'll get two or three
years of life extension.
So two or three years
of health span is a lot,
and it's translated to
trillions and trillions
of dollars of saving.
And I'm saying two or three
years on average, right?
Some people may be metformin
won't be effective,
and some people may live
10 years healthier or more.
>> Well, everyone can
do whatever they'd like,
and there's different evidence
for different molecules.
Certainly, there's
very good evidence
for metformin in animal models
that it slows down aging.
And there's some
initial evidence
in humans, although in some
humans have side effects.
And so you don't really know.
>> We know everything we need to
know in metformin because there
are billions of years of use
of metformin across the world.
There's not going
to be any surprise.
When you start metformin,
a lot of people
have side effects in
the first week of use,
and it's usually
gastrointestinal side effects.
Other than that,
most people have
no idea that they are
taking any drug like that.
So I would claim
that it has the best
record of any drug for safety.
>> It does amazing things for
you in terms of longevity,
changes your gut microbiota,
activates your AMP kinase,
does just a myriad
of amazing things.
The same time, it's a
partial mTOR inhibitor.
That's a problem.
It also uncouples
your mitochondria
to a certain degree, so you have
less energy efficiency, which
means it helps you lose weight.
On the other hand,
if you're an athlete,
you're not going to
have as much energy.
So there's all of these caveats
and innuendos of these things
that we have to be aware
of as we start playing
with the aspects of longevity.
>> So metformin's, actually
probably the worst of the--
I'm sure it's not the worst.
It's the worst of the
popular approaches
to stress response upregulation.
I don't understand
why it's popular.
This thing just has such mixed
results in animal studies.
Yet you have this human
study in diabetic patients,
where the diabetic
patients gained
a small but very consistent
gain in life expectancy
just a few years.
It's just not interesting.
If you told them to go exercise,
it would have been way better.
>> We know that for
type 2 diabetics,
metformin is fantastic for them.
It reduces their heart disease
risk and kidney disease
progression.
But unfortunately,
for non-diabetics
when they take metformin,
there was a 2019 TAME study
that showed that those
who took metformin,
they actually impaired
their response to exercise.
So those that were
taking metformin,
they were only
receiving about 50%
of the benefit of the exercise
regime that they were doing.
So we need to make sure that
with any strategy that we're
doing, it's first of all
safe and then effective.
>> Nir Barzilai is running
the same trial that will help
to give us a better answer.
And I think, there's no reason
to push ahead of the science
and start taking
these things before we
have proof on whether they
have any impact on aging.
>> Taking a drug used by
organ transplant patients
and for cancer treatment as an
anti-aging therapy may sound
a little outrageous.
But increased interest
in this approach
is being driven by the
research into rapamycin.
>> So rapamycin is
a small molecule.
It's actually got a really
interesting backstory to it.
So it was first found
from bacterial cultures
on Easter Island, which is, of
course, also called Rapa Nui.
That's where the drug
gets its name from.
And what we've learned
over the past few decades
is that this drug, in addition
to having interesting properties
in terms of affecting
the immune system,
also seems to slow
the biological aging
process in every animal
where it's been studied.
What we know at this point is
that if you treat laboratory
animals with rapamycin, you
see an increase in lifespan
and a corresponding increase in
what we call health span, which
is the period of life
that's spent in good health,
free from the chronic
diseases of aging.
So really, the big
question at this point
is whether or not
the same effects
will be seen in dogs
or in people outside
of the laboratory.
>> Over and over again
when rapamycin is tested,
we can see a roughly 15% to
20% lifespan extension in mice.
So out of all of the
molecules that we're currently
investigating to see what
molecules will actually
extend lifespan, I'm most
excited about rapamycin.
And I think it's
high time that we
translate some of that mice
data into human clinical trials.
>> If you ask a clinician,
they're often worried about
rapamycin.
And the reason is that it's
used for immune suppression.
So after organ transplant,
for instance, people
are prescribed rapamycin, but
they're not prescribed rapamycin
alone.
They're given rapamycin
plus cyclosporine,
which is a very strong
immune suppressant.
And together they further
suppress the immune system.
And so people are worried
about infections and things
like that if they
take rapamycin.
But the truth is, in
a healthy population
at a low dose of
rapamycin, it doesn't
suppress the immune system.
It's immunomodulatory,
in fact, it
protects against some
respiratory infections.
>> The nice and good
thing about rapamycin,
if you look at the studies,
it's dose dependent,
which means the more you give
or you're the more you take,
the better it works.
The problem is with rapamycin,
once you get to a high dose,
you get side effects.
And we're trying
to eliminate these.
So in order to get those very
beneficial effects in mice
that you see, we believe
it's important to have
a drug that you can dose higher
without getting those side
effects.
>> Rapamycin seems
to be very promising.
We're actually using these
in some clinical trials,
and the effects are really good.
>> So the Dog Aging Project is a
large scale study of the biology
of aging in companion
dogs or pet dogs,
is a clinical trial to try
to determine whether or not
rapamycin can have a positive
impact on the aging process
in pet dogs.
So the one thing I can tell you
is that in both clinical trials,
we saw no evidence for
significant side effects.
In the first clinical
trial, we also
saw evidence for a restoration
of age related heart function.
So just like in people, in pet
dogs as the dogs get older,
there's a gradual decline
in heart function.
And we saw evidence that
rapamycin could partially
reverse that.
That's also been seen
in laboratory mice.
And then in both studies,
we saw some evidence
that the dogs were more active.
And it's important to
appreciate that these
were double blind trials.
Meaning that the owners
and the veterinarians,
neither group knew which
dogs were getting rapamycin
or which were getting placebo.
Well, I cannot make any
recommendations about what you
do.
But I will say I know
a number of people
who have consulted with their
private practice veterinarian
and have convinced their
veterinarian to prescribe
rapamycin for their dog.
>> A lot of people I know are
taking rapamycin off label.
I don't encourage that.
I think more research
is probably a good idea,
but people do it.
>> Yeah, there are certain
medications we take
at Blueprint, which are
really on the cutting edge
of anti-aging science,
metformin and rapamycin are two.
There's a lot of disagreements
in the scientific field
about where these drugs are, and
what their proven efficacy is.
We believe there's sufficient
data to incorporate it
as an experimental.
So we are on both.
we track the data very closely.
We're trying to see
what my response curve.
If you're taking
rapa blindly, it's
really difficult thing to do.
You really want to see how your
metabolizing it specifically,
and then hone in on that dose.
>> Rapamycin is something that
I think a lot of people are
excited about, and I'm fairly
optimistic about rapamycin,
but I'm waiting for
the clinical trials.
Either there's clinical trials
going on in dogs and companion
animals, and also starting
clinical trials in humans
to see what this has an effect.
>> Rapamycin is very well-known
for slowing down aging.
But all of those claims are
made on a population level,
and you just don't know
whether that effect is going
to be realized and if
you're going to pick up
any kind of side effects.
I think people should be
very careful what they do.
Because if you take
something for 10 years
and you think it's slowing down
your aging and then you find out
it actually accelerated
it or you picked up
cancer or something like that,
that's obviously a bad choice.
So it's a gamble, and
everyone has the right
to gamble with their
body whatever they like.
>> In terms of a prediction of
what's possible for human life
expectancy, as I said, I think
it's at least plausible that
something like rapamycin or one
of the other interventions that
we're studying today could
have an impact of a decade,
maybe two decades, on healthy
life expectancy for most people.
>> Some people don't seem to
care that much about how long
they live.
But when it comes to their pets,
it's often a different story.
>> We see pet longevity as
being something that's a really
important part of the human
longevity agenda because I think
people need to become aware
of what's possible with these
interventions.
And if you're looking
at your dog as somebody
that you want to
live longer and you
can see that that's possible
in the interventions
that you give them, they
get the same diseases as us
in many respects, then
we see that that's
going to be a very important
bridgehead for educating people
on what's possible
for themselves.
>> Anybody who has
a dog, first of all,
recognizes that dogs age about
seven to 10 times faster than
people do, but also that
dogs don't live long enough.
We all love our pets, and
it's a horrible experience
when your companion who you feel
is part of your family, goes
through this decline
in a few years,
that would be a few
decades in people.
And ultimately you have to make
the decision to let them go.
It's horrible.
Even the interventions
that we have today,
there's a really good
likelihood that those
could have a significant
impact on health and longevity,
both in companion
animals and in people.
>> Doing trials in humans takes
a long time to get a result.
You can be waiting 60 or more,
many decades to get a result.
In animal trials, we're able
to get drugs to animals faster
in the cycle of testing.
And because their
lifespans are shorter,
we can show an influence on
their lifespans a lot sooner.
And what I can talk about is
that they're not on the market
yet, but we're using them
for compassionate use.
And what we're seeing there is
that people's dogs are going
from old dogs to puppies again.
The dog that used to not
want to go for a walk
is now waiting at the
door to go for a walk.
The dog that they used
to take for a walk
and it would be dragging
behind, is now out in front
pulling on the lead.
Interestingly, when you say,
do you want to live longer?
People say, I'm not sure.
But if you ask if they want
their dog to live longer,
I've never found
somebody that says no.
>> Kidney disease is one of
the leading causes of death
in the world.
Could a drug that
targets kidney disease
hold a promise to
slowing down aging?
>> There's something
called klotho.
Klotho is in every
animal, every human being.
It's a gene expression.
When it is high gene expression,
people live long, when it's low,
you live less.
It determines your
brain as well.
They believe it will have
an impact on dementia.
In animals, for
example, with mice,
they take the klotho gene
out, and their life expectancy
drops by 80%.
They expand the klotho gene,
in other words, the expression
as they get older, it usually
like NAD, many other things,
it shrinks, like stem cells,
they shrink, they drop.
But when they bring it back
to normal levels in mice,
at least they live 30% longer.
It'd be the equivalent of 20
more years in a human being's
life.
>> So klotho was discovered
in the late '90s in Japan
by a Japanese scientist that
was looking for treatments
for hypertension.
Since then, there have been
over 6,000 academic studies
and publications
looking at klotho.
Klotho is a circulating
hormone primarily produced
by the kidneys, which
declines with age.
So through research,
my scientific team,
we saw that there was a strong
correlation between kidney
health and overall longevity.
Humans that have kidney
disease or kidney failure
have low levels of klotho.
And we see, just like in
the original mouse studies,
these humans rapidly age.
My kidney function was dropping.
I measured my own klotho levels,
were low, and I just felt old.
My body fat was
close to 20%-25%.
I weighed almost 200 pounds.
Right before I needed
to go on dialysis,
I had a kidney transplant.
And so about six months
after my kidney transplant,
I tested my klotho levels,
and they went back up
to the normal level.
I started feeling better.
I feel like I become younger
in many different ways.
>> So they're just going through
the safety protocols now.
Next year, they hope to start
their traditional approach
with humans.
And I'm very excited about
testing that out and being
a part of that process, because
everything I've seen so far
makes it fascinating
what it can do.
It's very big difference in your
body's ability to regenerate.
Also, clean organs in your
body, arteries in your body.
It's extraordinary.
>> We're developing this
as a regulated drug,
not a nutritional supplement.
We'll go through FDA, clinical
trials starting next year
and bring it to market
as soon as we can.
Kidney disease is a big problem.
40 million people
in the US alone
have chronic kidney disease.
Half a million people a year
die from kidney disease.
And currently
there's no treatment.
>> So again, there's so many new
discoveries that are happening
that can transform everything.
What you got to do is
take care of yourself
long enough so that these
technologies catch up with you.
That's really it.
If you do the right things
now, so you're around,
you're probably going to live to
see these things because we're
at the base of a
geometric progression
and understanding how we
can transform the body.
>> Many studies have shown in
animals and in humans that even
a moderate amount of
exercise, walking,
some light strength training
does increase natural production
of klotho.
We suggest everybody get
in moderate exercise.
Healthy kidneys, longer life.
>> What if we could program
our cells to become younger?
That is the promise of
epigenetic reprogramming,
a new field of science that
aims at reversing aging
at the cellular level.
>> So there are some very
exciting therapies coming
through.
There's a lot of focus on
cellular reprogramming, which
is to be able to take cells
back to a more youthful state,
but for them to still
maintain their identity.
>> If you s change
back that epigenome,
so that the right genes are on
and the wrong genes are off,
can we revert you
to a younger age?
And a lot of people
believe that we can.
We're seeing skin cells being
reversed by decades, 30 years.
We're seeing blind mice
regaining their vision.
>> We also know now that you
can take cells of a given type
and turn them into a
completely different types,
so you can make a
skin cell a neuron.
And then now, I think
the most exciting thing
that you could take an
old cell and turn it back
into a seemingly young cell.
So I think we have a lot to
prove on whether we can actually
do that in a whole body, like
a human, and do it safely.
But I think, just the scientific
discovery itself is so exciting,
and I think opens up a
whole number of pathways
that we can go down.
>> It's looking very promising,
and we need something
that's very precise for
those clinical trials.
>> We'll see where the science
goes in the next 20-30 years.
It's really hard to predict.
Maybe epigenetic reprogramming
will be the breakthrough
that everybody is
hoping it will be.
And we can see
substantially larger impacts
on health span and lifespan, but
we'll just have to wait and see.
>> The FDA is known for their
rigorous approval process
for new drugs, and it often
takes decades and hundreds
of millions of dollars to
get a new drug approved.
In the field of longevity,
there is a group
of people known as
biohackers that don't want
to wait for official approvals.
Many call them reckless, others
refer to them as innovators.
>> Recently, I tripped
and I fell and I had to go
to the doctor and
get it sewn up.
And I went there,
this is an emergency
room in a mountainous area.
He said, sir, are you
on any medications?
I thought, oh, boy, this
is going to be tough.
And I said, OK, I'll
just give it a go.
I said, well, I'm
taking metformin.
He said, the drug for diabetics?
Yes.
Anything else?
I said, yeah, rapamycin.
The drug people give when
you're doing a organ transplant?
Yes.
Anything else?
I said yeah, dasatinib.
The leukemia drug?
Good Lord, son,
what are you doing?
And it was a good
reminder of the things
that we do for the Blueprint
protocol of slowing
my rate of aging
and rejuvenation
are so outside the norm, it
just strikes people as bizarre.
But we take a whole bunch of
basic things like vitamins
and minerals, and much more
advanced things like metformin,
rapamycin or acarbose,
which are prescription only
and are on the cutting
edge of aging science.
>> Doctors can repurpose drugs.
It's not against the
law to repurpose drugs.
And there are doctors
who would give them
metformin, that would give them
a rapamycin, that will give them
senolytics.
So it's out there, and
people are using that.
We're not going to have
the data from that.
We're going to trust the data.
But people who are aging
don't have the patience
to wait 10 years
for a drug approval.
>> I'm essentially
a longevity hacker.
I try things for me because
I need these things.
I don't have time
to wait five or 10
years for some kind of a big
scientific study to be approved.
Part of that is also
the understanding
that any kind of
a scientific study
is based on some solution,
that in some sense,
will work for the whole public.
I'm not the whole public.
I'm one person.
If it works for me,
that's good enough.
I've got so much I want to do.
I need 500 years.
When you approach life with
that kind of expectation,
all of a sudden you're not
looking at the end of your life.
>> So when you get very old,
a lot of these things that are
of dubious benefit, or at
least hard to measure benefit.
For younger, older
people, it starts
to be worth taking a shot, so.
>> They're sophisticated
biohackers,
many of them are scientists.
So the goal here is to
hang around and catch up.
This is the whole concept
of longevity escape velocity
to stay around until
science catches up,
until regulations allow the
science to treat these aging
conditions.
>> I mean, the first
thing to say about
the self-experimentation
community is they have a lot
of improvement to do.
If you're going to do this
stuff, hope is not sufficient.
You must measure
before and after.
You must test the compounds
you're ordering from wherever
you're ordering them from.
You have to do this properly.
And frankly,
self-experimentation
has a great history in the
scientific community that it
has a bad rep these days.
If you look back in the 1800s or
even like the middle of the last
century, people are out there
injecting themselves and testing
things on themselves.
And bold and brave scientists
are actually making progress
based upon this.
And it's an entirely
viable approach
that is somewhat diluted
by, not to be too offensive,
all the idiots whose approach to
it is, hey, let's try this thing
and see how I feel.
You just can't do that.
We live in a world in which most
people know more about their car
than they know about the
operation of their body,
and that's criminal.
It shouldn't be the case,
but it is what it is.
>> Technological breakthroughs
in longevity are moving
at incredible speed, and
advances in nanotechnology might
be just around the corner.
>> We are at the
beginnings of nanomedicine.
And by nanomedicine,
I mean, injecting
tiny, tiny, tiny little
machines into our body
to go in and do repair work
in cells that have aged
and have lost their ability
to reproduce effectively.
I think that's really exciting.
>> Nanotechs is developing
injectable biodegradable
nanoparticles called nanos.
And the amazing
thing about nanos
is that instead of adding
things to the body,
they take things out.
They take the junk out.
Think of them as little
tiny sponges that
circulate in the body, and
they absorb harmful substances
that contribute to inflammation,
aging, cancer, and sepsis.
>> And they go and clean up
the mess that accumulates with
aging.
They're able to unmask
cancer for the immune system.
The same treatment is able to
address senescent cells as well.
This is a pretty
exciting new technology.
>> The idea is to receive
these injections periodically
and clear out these harmful junk
that shouldn't be in the body
and needs to be taken out.
In the near future, these
nanotechs and other longevity
treatments will be used
first in clinical trials
to treat diseases.
And nanotechs specifically
will do clinical trials
to treat cancer in the
Massachusetts General Hospital
and in the Mayo Clinic,
and to treat sepsis
at the Cleveland Clinic.
So three of the best
hospitals in the world
are focusing on this
novel nanotechnology.
>> Senescent cells can
be a problem for aging,
and the field of senolytics is
searching for ways to tackle
these pesky little zombie cells.
>> So cells are dividing,
but there's a limit
to their division.
After 50 divisions, they
cannot divide anymore,
and they become what
we call senescent.
When they become senescent,
they're changing their biology,
and they're starting
to accumulate
lots of proteins and
inflammatory markers
that are being secreted
to their environment.
>> Because they sit there and
they just disrupt everything.
If you get rid of them get
pretty much instant rejuvenation
in days in mice.
You can take old mice, clear
out, let's say, 30% to 50%
of the senescent cells that
are lingering in their tissues.
And you have a
laundry list as long
as your arm of diseases
that reverse considerably
when you do that, from arthritis
to the enlargement of the heart,
the weakening of the heart
muscle that reverses.
All sorts of stuff
that you might think,
wow, this is never going away.
It's a really profound change.
The drugs that are used
now in mice to test
and are being trialed
in humans may turn out
to be the best
Alzheimer's treatment
of the next few decades.
Because Alzheimer's
itself appears to evolve
and most other
neurodegenerative diseases
appear to involve senescent
cells in the brain,
messing up the shop
with their secretions.
>> Senolytics did not exist
basically one decade ago,
and we are discovering
now senolytic treatments,
which will be pills or
injections that will eliminate
the zombie cells.
>> So senescent cells
accumulate in our system.
And even though there
aren't a lot of these,
they're highly pro-inflammatory.
So they're excreting
all these different
what we call cytokines or
pro-inflammatory factors.
These can actually then
damage nearby cells,
and either actually make them
become senescent or potentially
actually transform them
into precancerous cells that
could go on to create tumors.
>> The development of senolytics
is really probably unique
in the annals of
recent medical history,
because the first drug they dug
up to try on animals is actually
really, really good.
The dasatinib,
quercetin combination
has yet to be bested.
In fact, all of the
other senolytics
where we actually have
data for how good are they
at clearing versus what
are the side effects,
they're not better than
dasatinib and quercetin.
So you have this
fascinating dynamic
where a drug that is approved
and a supplement together could
be used off label, could
be used now off label.
There are people out
there using it now.
We don't have the trials
yet to back that up,
and that's a bit criminal.
They're going very slowly
because it's an approved drug,
it exists.
It costs next to nothing.
There's absolutely
zero incentive
for any of the big players to
try to take this existing drug
and put it through trials.
The trials are all academic.
>> I mean, I'm not going to
tell people what they should
and shouldn't do.
I would say
personally, I would not
be taking dasatinib
and quercetin
at this stage as a healthy
individual who is not suffering
from a deleterious disease.
So I think, there's
plenty of time
to wait and see
how this pans out.
I would also argue that for
most young, healthy people,
you aren't at the level of
senescent cell accumulation
that this probably will
make a huge difference.
And I think we don't really know
to what degree prevention really
early on before you have much
senescent cell accumulation
is really going to impact
the burden later on.
>> So I'm not convinced that
we know the full story about
senescent cells.
We don't yet know
which senescent
cells we need to remove,
and which ones need to stay.
Because the process
of senescence,
it helps to reduce cancer rates.
So we probably don't
want our old cells
from dividing because
they've probably
got damaged DNA or mutated DNA.
So we don't want those mutations
to proliferate or to grow.
So we use senescence to
stop that from happening.
So we don't want to
be stopping senescent.
Senescence also has a crucial
role to play in wound healing.
So again, we want to make
sure that we're clearing away
specific old cells.
But we're not too sure which
cells yet to clear away,
and which molecules
can do that best.
So I'm very hopeful around
this area of research,
but a lot more research
needs to be done first
until we can actually
use this in humans.